doc/src/README.md, before:

# libmicrovmi

[![CI](https://github.com/Wenzel/libmicrovmi/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Wenzel/libmicrovmi/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/microvmi.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/microvmi)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/libmicrovmi/community](https://badges.gitter.im/libmicrovmi/community.svg)](https://gitter.im/libmicrovmi/community?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
[![Gitpod ready-to-code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-ready--to--code-blue?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/Wenzel/libmicrovmi)

> A cross-platform unified interface on top of hypervisor's VMI APIs

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [VMI API](#vmi-api)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Build](#build)
- [Example](#example)
- [Maintainers](#maintainers)
- [License](#license)

## Overview

`libmicrovmi` simply aims to provide a cross-platform unified _Virtual Machine Introspection_ API and the necessary drivers to be
compatible with the diversity of hypervisors available today.

The term micro (μ) refers to the library's simplicity as well as the letter `U`
standing for `Unified` interface.

The grand goal is to be the foundation for a VMI abstraction library that will
be
- multi-hypervisor
- multi-emulator
- cross-plaform
- high-level API
    - OS-level semantics
    - stealth breakpoints
    - virtual address translation

![libmicrovmi_image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/964610/67619627-51036e80-f7ed-11e9-80f6-2eb15b018108.png)

### Virtual Machine Introspection Apps

- Debugging
    - [pyvmidbg](https://github.com/Wenzel/pyvmidbg)
    - [icebox](https://github.com/thalium/icebox)
    - [rVMI](https://github.com/fireeye/rvmi)
    - [LiveCloudKd](https://github.com/comaeio/LiveCloudKd)
- Dynamic Analysis / Sandboxing
    - [DRAKVUF](https://github.com/tklengyel/drakvuf)
    - [PyREBox](https://github.com/Cisco-Talos/pyrebox)
    - [PANDA](https://github.com/panda-re/panda)
    - [DECAF](https://github.com/decaf-project/DECAF)
- Live Memory Analysis
    - [Volatility](https://github.com/volatilityfoundation/volatility) with the [`VMIAddressSpace`](https://github.com/libvmi/python/blob/d50eca447c4b3ea2ba49df847bfb7a3d6f000bc0/volatility/vmi.py)
    - [Rekall](https://github.com/google/rekall) with the [`VMIAddressSpace`](https://github.com/google/rekall/blob/e2424fb0cfd34db954101375a58fdfafeac3d2fa/rekall-core/rekall/plugins/addrspaces/vmi.py)
- OS Hardening
- Cloud Monitoring
- Fuzzing
    - [applepie](https://github.com/gamozolabs/applepie)

### Drivers

- [x] Xen
- [x] KVM (based on [KVM-VMI](https://github.com/KVM-VMI/kvm-vmi))
- [x] VirtualBox (based on [icebox](https://github.com/thalium/icebox))
- [ ] Hyper-V (based on [LiveCloudKd](https://github.com/comaeio/LiveCloudKd))
- [ ] QEMU (based on [TCG Plugins](https://github.com/comaeio/LiveCloudKd))

## VMI API

* Query and modify the VM hardware state
    - read/write VCPU registers
    - read/write physical memory
* Subscribe and listen to hardware events
    - mov to/from CR3/CR8
    - mov to/from DRx
    - mov to/from MSR
    - interrupts
    - singlestep (MTF)
    - hypercalls
    - descriptors
    - SLAT (Second Level Address Translation) events
        - `r/w/x` event on a page
        - dynamically switch to multiple memory _views_ using alternate SLAT pointers
    - Intel Processor Trace packets
- Utilities
    - foreign mapping
    - pagefault injection

For more detailed information, please check the [Wiki](https://github.com/Wenzel/libmicrovmi/wiki)

## Requirements

- `Rust` stable
- `cargo`
- `clang` (bindgen)

## Build

To build the library, simply run

    cargo build

By default, only the `Dummy` driver will be available (it does nothing).

To enable a driver, for example `xen`, enable the corresponding feature
(`Cargo.toml`)

    cargo build --features xen

## Example

### mem-dump

A small binary is available to demonstrate what the `libmicrovmi` can do: `mem-dump`

It will dump the raw memory of the specified domain in a `domain_name.dump`
file.

Example with the `xen` driver:
~~~
$ cargo run --features xen --example mem-dump winxp
~~~

A memory dump should have been written in `winxp.dump`.

### API example

~~~Rust
// select drive type (Dummy, Xen, KVM, ...)
let drv_type = DriverType::Dummy;
// init library
let mut drv: Box<dyn Introspectable> = microvmi::init(drv_type, domain_name);
// pause VM
drv.pause()
    .expect("Failed to pause VM");
// get max physical address
let max_addr = drv.get_max_physical_addr()
                    .expect("Failed to get max physical address");
// read physical memory
let mut buffer: [u8; 4096] = [0; 4096];
let result = drv.read_physical(0x804d7000, &mut buffer);
// resume VM
drv.resume()
    .expect("Failed to resume VM");
~~~

## References

- [LibVMI C library](https://github.com/libvmi/libvmi): Simplified Virtual Machine Introspection

## Maintainers

- [@Wenzel](https://github.com/Wenzel)
- [@rageagainsthepc](https://github.com/rageagainsthepc)

## License

[GNU General Public License v3.0](https://github.com/Wenzel/pyvmidbg/blob/master/LICENSE)

Commit message:

doc/README: add Documentation section to build book

doc/src/README.md, after:

# libmicrovmi

[![CI](https://github.com/Wenzel/libmicrovmi/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Wenzel/libmicrovmi/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/microvmi.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/microvmi)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/libmicrovmi/community](https://badges.gitter.im/libmicrovmi/community.svg)](https://gitter.im/libmicrovmi/community?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
[![Gitpod ready-to-code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-ready--to--code-blue?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/Wenzel/libmicrovmi)

> A cross-platform unified interface on top of hypervisor's VMI APIs

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [VMI API](#vmi-api)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Build](#build)
- [Example](#example)
- [Maintainers](#maintainers)
- [License](#license)

## Overview

`libmicrovmi` simply aims to provide a cross-platform unified _Virtual Machine Introspection_ API and the necessary drivers to be
compatible with the diversity of hypervisors available today.

The term micro (μ) refers to the library's simplicity as well as the letter `U`
standing for `Unified` interface.

The grand goal is to be the foundation for a VMI abstraction library that will
be
- multi-hypervisor
- multi-emulator
- cross-plaform
- high-level API
    - OS-level semantics
    - stealth breakpoints
    - virtual address translation

![libmicrovmi_image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/964610/67619627-51036e80-f7ed-11e9-80f6-2eb15b018108.png)

### Virtual Machine Introspection Apps

- Debugging
    - [pyvmidbg](https://github.com/Wenzel/pyvmidbg)
    - [icebox](https://github.com/thalium/icebox)
    - [rVMI](https://github.com/fireeye/rvmi)
    - [LiveCloudKd](https://github.com/comaeio/LiveCloudKd)
- Dynamic Analysis / Sandboxing
    - [DRAKVUF](https://github.com/tklengyel/drakvuf)
    - [PyREBox](https://github.com/Cisco-Talos/pyrebox)
    - [PANDA](https://github.com/panda-re/panda)
    - [DECAF](https://github.com/decaf-project/DECAF)
- Live Memory Analysis
    - [Volatility](https://github.com/volatilityfoundation/volatility) with the [`VMIAddressSpace`](https://github.com/libvmi/python/blob/d50eca447c4b3ea2ba49df847bfb7a3d6f000bc0/volatility/vmi.py)
    - [Rekall](https://github.com/google/rekall) with the [`VMIAddressSpace`](https://github.com/google/rekall/blob/e2424fb0cfd34db954101375a58fdfafeac3d2fa/rekall-core/rekall/plugins/addrspaces/vmi.py)
- OS Hardening
- Cloud Monitoring
- Fuzzing
    - [applepie](https://github.com/gamozolabs/applepie)

### Drivers

- [x] Xen
- [x] KVM (based on [KVM-VMI](https://github.com/KVM-VMI/kvm-vmi))
- [x] VirtualBox (based on [icebox](https://github.com/thalium/icebox))
- [ ] Hyper-V (based on [LiveCloudKd](https://github.com/comaeio/LiveCloudKd))
- [ ] QEMU (based on [TCG Plugins](https://github.com/comaeio/LiveCloudKd))

## Documentation

Our documentation is available in `doc/` as an [`mdbook`](https://rust-lang.github.io/mdBook/) 📖

[![online_docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/Online-Documentation-green)](https://libmicrovmi.github.io/)

To build the docs locally:
~~~
$ cargo install mdbook
$ mdbook build doc
$ xdg-open doc/book/index.html
~~~

## VMI API

* Query and modify the VM hardware state
    - read/write VCPU registers
    - read/write physical memory
* Subscribe and listen to hardware events
    - mov to/from CR3/CR8
    - mov to/from DRx
    - mov to/from MSR
    - interrupts
    - singlestep (MTF)
    - hypercalls
    - descriptors
    - SLAT (Second Level Address Translation) events
        - `r/w/x` event on a page
        - dynamically switch to multiple memory _views_ using alternate SLAT pointers
    - Intel Processor Trace packets
- Utilities
    - foreign mapping
    - pagefault injection

For more detailed information, please check the [Wiki](https://github.com/Wenzel/libmicrovmi/wiki)

## Requirements

- `Rust` stable
- `cargo`
- `clang` (bindgen)

## Build

To build the library, simply run

    cargo build

By default, only the `Dummy` driver will be available (it does nothing).

To enable a driver, for example `xen`, enable the corresponding feature
(`Cargo.toml`)

    cargo build --features xen

## Example

### mem-dump

A small binary is available to demonstrate what the `libmicrovmi` can do: `mem-dump`

It will dump the raw memory of the specified domain in a `domain_name.dump`
file.

Example with the `xen` driver:
~~~
$ cargo run --features xen --example mem-dump winxp
~~~

A memory dump should have been written in `winxp.dump`.

### API example

~~~Rust
// select drive type (Dummy, Xen, KVM, ...)
let drv_type = DriverType::Dummy;
// init library
let mut drv: Box<dyn Introspectable> = microvmi::init(drv_type, domain_name);
// pause VM
drv.pause()
    .expect("Failed to pause VM");
// get max physical address
let max_addr = drv.get_max_physical_addr()
                    .expect("Failed to get max physical address");
// read physical memory
let mut buffer: [u8; 4096] = [0; 4096];
let result = drv.read_physical(0x804d7000, &mut buffer);
// resume VM
drv.resume()
    .expect("Failed to resume VM");
~~~

## References

- [LibVMI C library](https://github.com/libvmi/libvmi): Simplified Virtual Machine Introspection

## Maintainers

- [@Wenzel](https://github.com/Wenzel)
- [@rageagainsthepc](https://github.com/rageagainsthepc)

## License

[GNU General Public License v3.0](https://github.com/Wenzel/pyvmidbg/blob/master/LICENSE)
